== Scruby

Is a bare-bones SuperCollider livecoding library for Ruby, it provides comunication with a remote or local scsynth server and SynthDef creation with a
in a similar way to Sclang.

SynthDef creation and sending is robust but some features are not implemented such as SynthDef variations and others I may not be aware of.

livecode.rb executable is located in the bin directory and a TextMate bundle included in extras permits livecoding from TextMate, comunication is
thrugh *nix pipes. Similar functionality shouldn't be too dificult to implement from Emacs or Vim.

== Install

    $ [sudo] gem install scruby

Scruby is just a SuperCollider client so SC must be installed on the system. There's a PPA for installing SC under Ubuntu: https://launchpad.net/~supercollider/+archive/ppa.


== Usage

    require 'scruby'

    s = Server.new
    s.boot

    SynthDef.new :fm do |freq, amp, dur|
      mod_env = EnvGen.kr Env.new( d(600, 200, 100), d(0.7,0.3) ), 1, :timeScale => dur
      mod     = SinOsc.ar freq * 1.4, :mul => mod_env
      sig     = SinOsc.ar freq + mod
      env     = EnvGen.kr Env.new( d(0, 1, 0.6, 0.2, 0.1, 0), d(0.001, 0.005, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7) ), 1, :timeScale => dur, :doneAction => 2
      sig     = sig * amp * env
      Out.ar  0, [sig, sig]
    end.send

    Synth.new :fm, :freq => 220, :amp => 0.4, :dur => 1


To start a live coding session:

    $ live

See http://github.com/maca/live


== Todo

Receive OSC messages from SuperCollider

== License:

Copyright (c) 2008 Macario Ortega

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
